add separate compatibility tables (#275)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase: docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md

### Basic modifiers {#basic-rules-basic-modifiers}

The following modifiers are the most simple and frequently used.
Basically, they just limit the scope of rule application.

<!-- Please keep them sorted -->

> | Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [ExtEdg][ext-edg] | [CB][and-cb] |

Reviewer: * `$match-case` is supported by `CL apps` and `Content Blocker`. NO support in AdGaurd for Safari/iOS (maybe a bug, not sure)
* `$denyallow` - checked, it does not work in `Content Blocker`
* `$important` - checked, it does not work in `Content Blocker`
* `$to` - if it will be implemented, it may be mentioned under the table.

Also I suggest to use "✅[1]"+comment below instead of `⚠️` in case of partial support

The following modifiers are the most simple and frequently used.
Basically, they just limit the scope of rule application.

<!-- Please keep them sorted -->

| Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [CB][and-cb] |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$app](#app-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$denyallow](#denyallow-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$domain](#domain-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ [*](#domain-modifier-limitations) | ✅ [*](#domain-modifier-limitations) | ✅ |
| [$header](#header-modifier) | ✅ | ⏳ | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$important](#important-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$match-case](#match-case-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ? | ? | ✅ |
| [$method](#method-modifier) | ⏳ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$popup](#popup-modifier) | ✅ * | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ * | ✅ * | ? |
| [$third-party](#third-party-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$to](#to-modifier) | ⏳ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

:::note

- ✅ — fully supported
- ✅ * — supported, but reliability may vary or limitations may occur; check the modifier description for more details

> <!-- - 🧩 — may already be implemented in nightly or beta versions but is not yet supported in release versions -->

Reviewer 2: it will be challenging to maintain this in an up-to-date state :)

Reviewer 2: moreover, some platforms may have fresh modifiers in release tracks but others - only in pre-release ones

Reviewer: @slavaleleka what about to add new columns to the secret table, and synchronize syntax changes into it first, and then from it to AGLint and KB?
Or add a new page with all these tables, and use that file as primary synchronization source?

Author: synchronisation sounds great but seems to be a separate task

> - ⏳ — feature that have been implemented or is planned to be implemented but are not yet available in any product

Reviewer 3: давайте определимся с числом:
⏳ - Features that have been implemented or are planned to be implemented but are not yet available in any product.
или
⏳ - Feature that has been implemented or is planned to be implemented but is not yet available in any product.

### Content-type modifiers {#content-type-modifiers}

There is a set of modifiers, which can be used to limit the rule's application area to certain type of content. These modifiers can also be combined to cover, for example, both images and scripts.

:::info Compatibility

There is a big difference in how AdGuard determines the content type on different platforms.
For AdGuard Browser Extension, content type for every request is provided by the browser.

> AdGuard for Windows, Mac, Android use following method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AdGuard for Windows, Mac, and Android use the following method:
```

> first we try to determine the type of the request by the `Sec-Fetch-Dest` request header or by the filename extension.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
first, the apps try to determine the type of the request by the `Sec-Fetch-Dest` request header or by the filename extension.
```

- `||example.org^$script,stylesheet` — corresponds to all the scripts and styles from `example.org`.
- `||example.org^$~image,~script,~stylesheet` — corresponds to all requests to `example.org` except for the images, scripts and styles.

<!-- Please keep them sorted -->

| Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [ExtEdg][ext-edg] | [CB][and-cb] |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$document](#document-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$font](#font-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$image](#image-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$media](#media-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$object](#object-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$other](#other-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |

> | [$ping](#ping-modifier) | ⚠️ | ✅ | ✅ | ? | ? | ✅ | ? |

Reviewer: * `$ping` rule does not work in Safari/iOS, works in `CB`

| [$script](#script-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$stylesheet](#stylesheet-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

> | [$subdocument](#subdocument-modifier) | ? | ✅ | ✅ | ? | ? | ✅ | ? |

Reviewer: * `$subdocument works in Safari/iOS. It seems does not work in `CB`

- `||example.org^$script,stylesheet` — corresponds to all the scripts and styles from `example.org`.
- `||example.org^$~image,~script,~stylesheet` — corresponds to all requests to `example.org` except for the images, scripts and styles.

<!-- Please keep them sorted -->

| Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [CB][and-cb] |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$document](#document-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$font](#font-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$image](#image-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$media](#media-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$object](#object-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$other](#other-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$ping](#ping-modifier) | ✅ * | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |
| [$script](#script-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| [$stylesheet](#stylesheet-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

> | [$subdocument](#subdocument-modifier) | ? | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [$subdocument](#subdocument-modifier) | ✅ * | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
```
CoreLibs detects subdocument by a value of the `sec-fetch-dest` header if it's present. Otherwise, some main pages may be treated as subdocuments.

> | [$websocket](#websocket-modifier) | ? | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ * | ✅ * | ✅ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [$websocket](#websocket-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ * | ✅ * | ✅ |
```

CoreLibs both support websocket rules and are able to detect websocket connections

:::

<!-- Please keep them sorted -->

| Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [ExtEdg][ext-edg] | [CB][and-cb] |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$content](#content-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

> | [$elemhide](#elemhide-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ? | ? | ✅ | ? |

Reviewer: * `$elemhide`, `$generichide`, '$jsinject' works in Safari/iOS
* `$urlblock` / `$genericblock` works as `$document` exclusion in Safari/iOS. It is suported by apps and chromium/ff extensions.

* `$elemhide`, `$generichide` work in `CB` as it should. 
* * `$urlblock` / `$genericblock` don't work in `CB`

Reviewer: unblocks everything

| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$all](#all-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$badfilter](#badfilter-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$cookie](#cookie-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$csp](#csp-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$hls](#hls-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$inline-font](#inline-font-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$inline-script](#inline-script-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$jsonprune](#jsonprune-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$network](#network-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$permissions](#permissions-modifier) | ✅ | ⏳ | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$redirect](#redirect-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$redirect-rule](#redirect-rule-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$referrerpolicy](#referrerpolicy-modifier) | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$removeheader](#removeheader-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$removeparam](#removeparam-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$replace](#replace-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

> | [noop](#noop-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ? | ✅ | ❌ |

Reviewer: `noop`(`_`,`____`) works in Safari/iOS

```suggestion
| [noop](#noop-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
```

:::info Compatibility

> Rules with `$specifichide` modifier are not supported by AdGuard for iOS and Safari, and AdGuard Content Blocker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rules with `$specifichide` modifier are not supported by AdGuard for iOS and Safari and AdGuard Content Blocker.
```

:::

### Advanced capabilities {#advanced-modifiers}

> These modifiers are able to completely change the behaviour of basic rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These modifiers are able to completely change the behavior of basic rules.
```

| [$inline-script](#inline-script-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$jsonprune](#jsonprune-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$network](#network-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$permissions](#permissions-modifier) | ✅ | ⏳ | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$redirect](#redirect-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$redirect-rule](#redirect-rule-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$referrerpolicy](#referrerpolicy-modifier) | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$removeheader](#removeheader-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$removeparam](#removeparam-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$replace](#replace-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [noop](#noop-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$empty 👎](#empty-modifier "deprecated") | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$mp4 👎](#mp4-modifier "deprecated") | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

:::note

- ✅ — fully supported
- ✅ * — supported, but reliability may vary or limitations may occur; check the modifier description for more details
<!-- following emoji shall be needed for $referrerpolicy after 1.12 is used in some apps -->
<!-- - 🧩 — may already be implemented in nightly or beta versions but is not yet supported in release versions -->

> - ⏳ — feature that have been implemented or is planned to be implemented but are not yet available in any product

Reviewer 3: тот же комментарий про единственное/множественное число

:::caution Restrictions

- Rules with `$removeparam` modifier can be used [**only in trusted filters**](#trusted-filters).
- `$removeparam` rules are compatible with [basic modifiers](#basic-rules-basic-modifiers),
[content-type modifiers](#content-type-modifiers), and with `$important` and `$app` modifiers.

> The rules which have any other modifiers are considered invalid and will be discarded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rules with any other modifiers are considered invalid and will be discarded.
```

Rule weight: base weight + allowed content types, [category 2](#priority-category-2):
`1 + (50 + 50/12) = 55`.

## Non-basic rules {#non-basic-rules}

> However, the capabilities of the basic rules may not be sufficient to block ads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, basic rules may not be enough to block ads.
```

it is used for the escaping). Use `\` to escape them. For example, an escaped bracket looks like
this: `\]`.

| Modifier \ Products | [CL apps][cl-apps] | [ExtChr][ext-chr] | [ExtFf][ext-ff] | [iOS app][ios-app] | [Safari][ext-saf] | [CB][and-cb] |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [$app](#non-basic-app-modifier) | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [$domain](#non-basic-domain-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$path](#non-basic-path-modifier) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
| [$url](#non-basic-url-modifier) | ✅ | ⏳ | ⏳ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

:::note

- ✅ — fully supported

> - ⏳ — feature that have been implemented or is planned to be implemented but are not yet available in any product

Reviewer 3: и тут (скорее единственное)

:::info Compatibility

> Rules with `$path` modifier are not supported by AdGuard Browser Extension for Edge Legacy and AdGuard Content Blocker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rules with `$path` modifier are not supported by AdGuard Browser Extension for Edge and AdGuard Content Blocker.
```

We wish you luck with creating you own ad filters.

If you need an advice on how to create your own filters properly, our forum has a [special section](https://forum.adguard.com/index.php?forums/69/) dedicated to writing your own filtering rules.

* * *

## Compatibility tables legend {#compatibility-tables-legend}

### Product shortcuts {#what-product}

1. `CL apps` — AdGuard for Windows, Mac, Android — CoreLibs-based apps

> 1. `ExtChr` — AdGuard Browser extension for Chrome and other Chromium-based browsers, e.g. new Microsoft Edge, Opera

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `ExtChr` — AdGuard Browser Extension for Chrome and other Chromium-based browsers, e.g. new Microsoft Edge, Opera
```

Reviewer 3: тут и ниже надо с большой

1. `ExtFf` — AdGuard Browser extension for Firefox
1. `iOS app` — AdGuard for iOS (for mobile Safari browser)
1. `Safari` — AdGuard for Safari (for desktop Safari browser)
1. `ExtEdg` — AdGuard Browser extension for Edge Legacy (non-based on Chromium)
1. `CB` — AdGuard Content Blocker (for mobile Samsung and Yandex browsers)

### Compatibility shortcuts {#what-compat}

:::note

- ✅ — fully supported
- ✅ * — supported, but reliability may vary or limitations may occur; check the modifier description for more details
- 🧩 — may already be implemented in nightly or beta versions but is not yet supported in release versions

> - ⏳ — feature that have been implemented or is planned to be implemented but are not yet available in any product

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ⏳ — feature that has been implemented or is planned to be implemented but is not yet available in any product
```

### Product shortcuts {#what-product}

1. `CL apps` — AdGuard for Windows, Mac, Android — CoreLibs-based apps

> 1. `ExtChr` — AdGuard Browser Extension for Chrome and other Chromium-based browsers, e.g. new Microsoft Edge, Opera

Reviewer: а почему `Extension` с заглавной? На сайте строчная
https://adguard.com/en/adguard-browser-extension/overview.html

Reviewer 3: https://jira.adguard.com/browse/ADG-7370

Reviewer 3: создала задачу (ADG-7370)
